https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-49767327
Climate strike: Protests held across UK
Protests are taking place across the UK, with pupils leaving schools and workers downing tools as part of a global "climate strike" day.

Millions are taking part around the world with rallies in British cities including Glasgow, Manchester and London, urging "climate justice".

Students, workers and businesses were encouraged to let off alarms across the country at 13:00 BST.

Energy minister Kwasi Kwarteng said their voices were "being heard".

However, he said he could not "endorse children leaving school" to take part.

Huge crowds join day of climate action - live updates
Greta Thunberg tells US politicians to try harder
Hundreds miss school for climate strike protest
Jake Woodier, campaign co-ordinator at UK Student Climate Network said: "We understand it's simply not feasible for many employees to take a day off to participate in a strike, but that doesn't mean they can't have a voice."

Demonstrations have also been organised in Cardiff, Edinburgh, Brighton, Newcastle, Bournemouth and Birmingham.

Student Jessica Ahmed, 16, emailed her school to warn that she would be joining the protests instead of being in class.

Speaking at a protest in Westminster, Miss Ahmed, of Barnet, north London, said: "If politicians were taking the appropriate action we need - and had been taking this action a long time ago when it was recognised the world was changing in a negative way - then I would not have to be skipping school."

Dozens of pupils from John Stainer Community Primary school in Brockley, south-east London, are among those taking part in the capital.

Head teacher Sue Harte said the school had decided to take part because "climate change is clearly a big issue" and "children need to know that they have a right to democratic protest".
Hundreds of climate activists - including children in school uniform - have staged a mass "die in" in Belfast, where they lay down in the city centre.

One Extinction Rebellion activist, Lorraine Montague from County Tyrone, was dressed as a swan to highlight the threat of climate change to wildlife.

She said: "Our climate is at crisis point and the government is not doing anything about it. We have to support the young people, they are the ones who started this strike.

"We are grieving for our future. I don't feel happy about having children the way our climate is going."
Extinction Rebellion 'solidarity'
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will address the group's rally outside Westminster.

Extinction Rebellion, which organised its own climate and environment protests in the UK earlier this year, said it stood "in solidarity" with those taking part.

It added that its members were joining the strikes and holding their own events, including a choir and "kids' space" in Victoria Tower Gardens, Westminster, and outside King's College London.

Some trade unions, including TUC, the University and College Union and Unite, are supporting members who take part in the "strikes".

Co-operative Bank says it is supporting workers who want to join the action, while US clothing brand Patagonia is closing all of its stores and taking out adverts to back the protesters.

The action follows earlier school strikes inspired by activist Greta Thunberg.

The teenager, from Sweden, is set to join a rally planned in New York, where world leaders will meet at the UN next week to discuss climate change.

Mr Kwarteng said the protesters' voices were being heard but he could not "endorse children leaving school".

He told BBC Breakfast: "What I do support is their energy, their creativity, and the fact that they have completely mastered these issues and take them very seriously."